# MMInter

## A.) Overview

All raw data, code, and intermediate files for the manuscript "Divalent metal cation-metabolite interaction model reveals cation buffering and speciation". The goal of this repository is to minimally reproduce analysis and figures from the paper. Additional information is provided to help the user understand where the stability constants came from. I also provided instructions for a minimal installation of useful functions as an R package if the user wants to implement them outside of the very specific environment specified in the instructions below. Users should proceed with caution in this advanced scenario. Questions should be directed to JPSieg as an issue request using the issues tab on the main page of MMInter.

Interaction coefficents were parsed out of a MySQL formatted version of NIST46 provided by Dr. Donald R. Burgess Jr. available at:

https://doi.org/10.18434/M32154

Please cite:

Donald R. Burgess, Jr. (2011), NIST SRD 46. Critically Selected Stability Constants of Metal Complexes: Version 8.0 for Windows, National Institute of Standards and Technology, https://doi.org/10.18434/M32154

Apparant dissacociation constants were estimated from absolute interaction coefficients with corrections for ionic strength and pH using code from https://github.com/JPSieg/MetaboMgITC.

SVG formatted figures were worked up with Inkscape (https://inkscape.org/) and exported to high-resolution pngs.

## B.) Contents

data/ #Directory containing R project formated data which can be exposed in an R session following the instructions below 

Figures_Tables/ #Directory containing scripts to generate the figures in the manuscript

R/ #Directory containing functions and objects which can be exposed in an R session following the instructions below

DESCRIPTION #File containing metadata for this project. All dependencies are listed.

LICENCE #File containing the MIT liscence

MMInter.Rproj #Rproject file that can be opened in Rstudio

NAMESPACE #Generated by devtools and Roxygen. Do not edit

## C.) Instructions

### 1.) System requirements

This code has been implemented on Mac, Windows, and Ubuntu (Linux) oporating systems

You will need an R environment with the following packages installed:

    r-devtools
    r-tidyverse
    r-cowplot
    r-usethis
    r-nleqslv
    r-viridis
    r-ggpmisc
    r-ggpmisc

### 2.) Graphical user interface (ish) implementation

This route assumes that the user does not have very much computational experience. This route uses Rstudio, which is a free integrated development environment for R, and makes the code more accessible to a new R user.

1.) Install R (https://www.r-project.org/). 

2.) Install Rstudio Desktop (https://posit.co/downloads/),

3.) Click "Code" to download the MMInter repository as a zipped directory.

4.) Unzip the file and move it to a convenient place on your computer.

5.) Open Rstudio. Click file, open project, and select the "MMInter.Rproj" file in the MMInter directory on your computer.

6.) Install the dependencis by running the following command in your R console in Rstudio. Note, you should not need to do this again if all of the packages intall properly.

    install.packages("devtools", "tidyverse", "cowplot", "usethis", "nleqslv", "viridis", "ggpmisc", "ggpmisc")

7.) You are now ready to reproduce the figures. For example, click file then open "Figures_Tables/Solving script.R". The script will pop up in the top panel of Rstudio. You can implement the code line-by-line in the interactive console in the bottom panel by placing your cursor on the line you want to implement and hitting [ctrl]+[enter] (Windows & Linux) or [command]+[enter] (Mac).

### 3.) Bash implementation

This route is probably easier for a user with more computational experience.

1.) Install the dependencies in a dedicated R environment.

2.) Clone the repository.

    git clone https://github.com/JPSieg/MMInter/

3.) 



### 4.) Installation


